Math-FastGF2 version 0.01
=========================

Math::FastGF2 - Perl extension for fast Galois Field arithmetic

Minimal, optimised library to do modular arithmetic in Galois Fields
of size 8, 16 and 32 bits. Once the program has been installed, for
full documentation use

  perldoc Math::FastGF2

INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

To install to a different directory (say, because you don't have
permission to write to the system directories), use:

   perl Makefile.PL INSTALL_BASE=/path/to/install
   make
   make test
   make install

If you install to a non-standard location, don't forget to use the -I
option to perl or set/modify the PERLLIB environment variable to
include the correct install path. See perlrun for details.

DEPENDENCIES

  Exporter
  XSLoader

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2009 by Declan Malone

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the the "GNU General Public License" ("GPL").

The C code at the core of this Perl module can additionally be
redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the "GNU Library
General Public License" ("LGPL"). For the purpose of that license, the
"library" is defined as the unmodified C code section of this module's
.xs file, plus whatever other glue is necessary to produce a linkable
library from the C code. That is, if you want to use the LGPL and link
your C code against the library, you must restrict your modifications
to only those required to get the C code from the .xs file to compile
to a linkable form; any further editing over and above that will void
the LGPL part of this license, and the software (and, by extension,
any modifications you make to it) will revert to being licensed by the
full version of the GPL.

Please refer to the files "GNU_GPL.txt" and "GNU_LGPL.txt" in this
distribution for details.

DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.
